the following content is provided under a Creative Commons license
your support will help MIT OpenCourseWare continue to offer
high-quality educational resources for free
to make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of them IT
courses
visit MIT OpenCourseWare at 0 CW
that MIT that EDU Horan
the
the in
the new
the the
during the course we've developed a number
love very powerful and useful tools and we've seen how
these can be used in designing and analyzing systems for example for
filtering for modulation et cetera
I'd like to conclude this
series of lectures with an introduction to one more
important topic namely the
analysis love feedback systems and
what are the principal reasons that we have left
this discussion to the last part of the cores is so that we can exploit
some of the ideas that we've just developed in
summer the previous lectures namely the tools afforded us by
applause NZ transforms now
as I had indicated in one of the
very first lectures a common example
a feedback system is the problem love let's say
balancing a broom or in the case if that lecture balancing
my son's force on in the palm of your hand
and kinda the idea there is dead
what that relies on in order to
make that a stable system is feedback in that particular case visual feedback
that specific problem the one about saying something let's say in the palm
of your hand
is an example love a problem which is commonly referred to as
inverted pendulum and it's one that we will actually be analyzing
in a fair manner detailed not in this lecture but in the next lecture
but let me just kinda vindicate what so the issues
are let me describe this into context not over balancing a broom on your hand
but
let's say that we have a mechanical system which consists of a card
and the card can move let's say in one dimension
and it has mounted on it
a bar a ride with the weight on the top
and it pivots around the base so that essentially represents the
inverted pendulum so that system can be
more or less depicted as i've indicated here and this is the cart
that can move along the x-axis and
here we have a pivot point a ride await at the top
and then of course there's several forces acting on this and
their is an acceleration that can be applied to the cart:
and that will be thought a as the external input
and then on the pendulum itself on the wait
there is the force of gravity and
then typically said if external disturbances that might
represent for example air currents or wind or whatever
dead will attempt to
Dez to destabilize the system specifically
to have the pendulum fall down now
if we look at this system in more or less
a straightforward way what we have then
are the system dynamics and
several inputs one of which is the external disturbances
and the second is the acceleration which is
the external acceleration is supplied and the app for the system can be
thought I love
as the angular displacement love the pendulum which
if we want a balanced we would like that angular displacement to be equal to 0
now if we know exactly what the system dynamics are
and if we knew exactly what the external disturbances are
invented principal we could design and acceleration namely an input
dead would exactly generate
0 output in other words the angle would be equal to 0 but as you can imagine
just is its basically impossible to balance a broom
in the palm of your hand with your eyes close
what is very hard to ascertain in advance or what the various
dynamics and disturbances are and so more typically
what you with a kid doing is measuring
the output angle and
then using that measurement to somehow
influence the applied acceleration or fours
and that then is an example other feedback system
so we would major the output angle
and generate
an input acceleration which is
some function love what that output angle is
and if we choose the feedback dynamics correctly
then in fact we can drive this output 20
this is one example love a system
which is inherently unstable because if we left it to its own
devices the pendulum with simply fall down and essentially by applying
feedback
what we're trying to do is stabilize this inherently unstable system
and we'll talk a little bit more about that specific application feedback
shortly another common example a feedback
is in positioning our tracking systems
and I aid indicate one here
which corresponds to the problem love positioning
a telescope which is mounted on a rotating platform
so in a system that tape for example
I indicate here the rotating platform in the telescope
it's driven by a motor and again
we could imagine in principle the possibility love
driving this to the desired angle
by choosing an appropriate applied input voltage
and as long as we know such things as what the disturbances are that influence
the telescope mount and what the characteristics that the motor are
in principle we could in fact
carry this out in a form which is referred to as open loop
namely we can choose an appropriate input voltage
to drive a motor to set
the platform ankle at the desired angular position
however again there are enough unknowns in a problem like that
so that one is motivated to employ
feedback namely to make a measurement
up the output angle and use that in a feedback loop
to influence the press the drive for the motor
so that the motor so that the telescope platform is positioned appropriately
so if we look at this in a feedback
context we would then
take the measured output angle
and the measured output angle
would be fed back and compared
with the desired angle and
the difference between those which essentially is the error between the
platform positioning and the desired position
would be put perhaps through an appropriate gainer attenuation
and used as the exhortation to the motor
so in the mechanical or physical system
that would correspond to measuring the angle let's say
with the potentiometer so here we're measuring
the angle and we have an output which is proportional
to that measured angle and then we would use
feedback comparing
the measured angle to some
proportionality factor multiplying the desired angle
so here we have the desired angle
again through some type a potentiometer
the two are compared I do the comparator
we basically have an indication of what the difference
is and that represents an error between the desired in the true Engel
and then that is used through perhaps an amplifier
to control the motor and in that case
of course when the air goes to zero that means that the actual angle on the
desired angle
are equal and in fact in that case also with this system
the input to the motor is likewise equal to 0
now and as i've illustrated here
it tends to be in the context or a continuous-time
or analog system and in fact another very common
way of doing positioning or tracking is
to instead implement the feedback
using a discrete I'm a digital system
and so in that case we would basically take the
position output as its measures
sample at a sexually
convert that to additional discrete-time
signal and then that is used in conjunction
with the desired angle
which both foreign ports to this processor
and the output a bad is converted let's say back to
and a an analog a continuous-time voltage and used to drive the motor
now you could ask why would you go to
a digital or discrete time measurement rather than doing it
the way a I showed on the previous overlay which seemed relatively
straightforward
and the reason principally is dead in the context of a digital implementation
the feedback process often
you can implement a better controlled
an offense also more sophisticated
algorithm for the feedback dynamic so that you can take a cab perhaps not only
the angle itself but also love the rate of change a bang going in fact
the rate of change in the rate of change in angle and
so the system Isis shown air then
is basically has a discrete-time
or digital feedback loop around a continuous-time system
now open this is an example 0
in fact the more general way in which
discrete-time feedback is used with
continuous systems and
let me indicate in general what such
what the character a block diagram such a system might be
typically if we abstract away from the telescope Positioning System
we might have a more general continuous-time system
and around which we want to apply some feedback which we could do with a
continuous-time system
or with the discrete-time system by first
converting the signals to discrete-time signals
then processing that with a discrete-time system
and then through inappropriate interpolation algorithm
we would then convert that back to
a continuous-time signal and
the difference between the input signal and this continues to signal which is
fed back
then forms the exhortation to the system that
essentially we're trying to control and in
many systems that this type the advantage
is that this system can be implemented
in a very reproducible way either with a digital computer computer
or with microprocessor and although
we're not going to go into this in any detail
in this lecture there is some discussion this in the text
essentially if we make certain assumptions about
this particular feedback system we can
move the continues to discrete-time converter
up to this point and to this point and we can move
the interpolating system outside
the summer and what happens in that case
is that we end up with what
looks like an inherently discrete-time
feedback system so in fact we take those steps
then what we'll end up with for a feedback system
is a system that essentially
can be analyzed as a discrete-time system
here we have what is in the forward path
and is basically the continuous-time system
with the interpolator at one end and it continues to discrete-time converter at
the other end
and then we have whatever system it was in the feedback loop
discrete-time that shows up in this
feedback loop well show this
mainly to emphasize the fact although there are some steps there that we
obviously left out
I show that mainly to emphasize the fact that feedback arises
not just in the context of continuous-time systems
but also the analysis love discrete-time
feedback systems becomes important perhaps because
we have used discrete-time feedback around a continuous-time system
but also perhaps because the feedback system
is inherently discrete-time in lobby and just illustrate
one or indicate one example in which
that might arise this is an example
in which which is also
discussed in so in more detail in the text
but basically population studies for example
represent examples all discrete-time feedback systems
where let's say that we have some type of model
for population growth and since people come
in imager amounts that represents essentially
the the I the output over any population model
essentially are inherently represents a sequence namely its index
on an integer variable
and typically models for population growth
are unstable systems you can kind imagine that because
if you take simple models the population and what happens is that
the in any generation the
number all people or
animals or whatever it is that this is modeling
grows essentially exponentially I love with
the size the previous generation now where does the feedback come in
well the feedback typically comes in in in
incorporating in the overall model various retarding factors for example
as the population increases the food supply becomes more limited
and that a sexually as a feedback process
dead acts to
retard the population growth and so
an overall model are somewhat simplified
for a for a population system
is the open-loop model in the absence of retarding factors
and then very often the retarding factors
can be described as being related
to the size of the population and those
essentially act to reduce
the overall input to the population model
and so population studies are
one very common example love discrete-time feedback systems
well what would a look at and understand
are the basic properties love
feedback systems and to do that
let's look at the basic block diagrams and equations
for feedback systems either continuous-time and discrete-time
let's begin with
the continuous-time case
and now what we've done is simply abstract out
any of the applications to a fairly general system
in which we have a system HVS
in what's referred to as the forward path
and a system GIS in the feedback path
and the the
input to the system HVS is the difference between the input to the
overall system
and the output out the feedback loop
and I draw your attention to the fact that
what we illustrate here and what we're analyzing is negative feedback
namely this out this output is attracted
from the input and thats done
more for reasons have convention than for any other reasons
its typical to do that an appropriate certainly
in some feedback systems but not all and
the output of the answer is commonly referred to as the error signal
indicating that is the difference between the signal fed back
and the input to the overall system
now if we want to analyze the feedback system
we would do that essentially by writing the appropriate equations
and its best done and generating
the equivalent system function for the overall system
it's best on in the frequency or poss transform domain
rather than a in the time domain and let me just indicate
what the steps are that are involved in there are few steps have algebra that
I that I'll leave in your hands but basically if we look at
this feedback system we can label of course is the output is why ft
we can label they look lost transform the output is why evas
and we also have YS as the input here
because this is the system function the apostrophe s former varsity is simply
the applause transformer this and for which is why our best times Govs
so here we have why evas times
Govs at the air
the input here is excessive ass
and so the law applies transform of the error signal
is simply exit ass
minus our best which is why I've SG a vast so this is minus why evas
GFS thats
the love postures for the error signal the apostrophe its form
all the output if this system is simply
this expression times HFS
so that's what we have here but what we have here we already called why evas
so in fact we can simply say dead
these two expressions have to be equal
and so we've essentially done the analysis
saying that those two expressions are equal lets us